Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going to explain
a drama and sci-fi film called "The Beyond."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
In London, Gillian, a senior member of Space
Agency, the biggest astronomical institute in the
world, is having an interview about her life and
work. Her daughter joins the interview,
and she tells the interviewer how proud
she is of her mother. Gillian suddenly gets a
phone call from the agency, and the interview
is cut short as she needs to rush to work.
Footage from the International Space Station
is then shown. The recording is from one of the
astronauts, Jim Marcell. He heads out of the
station for a spacewalk and repairs equipment
outside of the station. They suddenly start
hearing interference in the radio transmission,
and Jim reports seeing strange lights. Other
astronauts see it but indicate that there are no
expected astronomical anomalies that could explain
what they’re seeing. The lights intensify, and the
station starts vibrating. Jim tries to hurry back
inside, but Jim’s transmission suddenly cuts off.
Back on Earth, Gillian explains the recorded
footage and says that satellites worldwide
experienced the same thing at the same time.
Unfortunately, Jim was never
found and is presumed dead.
Charles, the chief of mission control, mourns his
dear friend's passing. A team is now analyzing the
footage from the space station frame by frame
to figure out what happened to Jim. They still
have no clue what the strange anomaly is.
Alex, the head of exploration missions,
talks about the anomaly, saying that it has
appeared several decades ago but disappeared
before they could get more information.
Jessica, a cosmologist, is brought in due to
her expertise in gravitational waves. They found
that anomaly emits a form of gravitational wave,
something that shouldn’t be possible.
The scientists have given the anomaly
the nickname “The Void.” Alex explains that the
void is similar in appearance to the remnants of
the supernova, but due to its proximity to Earth,
they know it’s not an exploded star. They’ve also
detected a short-burst radio wave transmitted
at a specific 1,420 megahertz frequency.
An astrophysicist from the University of
Astrophysics, Jakob, tells a story about the
radio astronomers who discovered the signal.
It was detected years ago and was dubbed the
“Wow signal.” Astronomers have been trying to
locate the source of the signal ever since.
Curious to learn more about the void, the
scientists send reconnaissance probes into it.
In the control room, the scientists watch as
a probe slowly makes its way into the void.
As the probe enters the void, it loses its
signal. Fortunately, they’ve prepared for this,
and Charles reveals that the probe was
transmitting real-time footage into high-speed
servers on Earth. They managed to capture a
short glimpse of what’s on the other side.
At a meeting, Gillian presents the images from the
probe. They observe matter entering and exiting
the void, which leads them to conclude that the
void could be a wormhole. What they need to know
now is what’s on the other side of the void.
By sending more probes into the void,
they get better images and discover another
planet on the other side of the void.
Jessica theorizes that the void could be
a sort of first contact with intelligent
life from the other side, and Alex expresses
his concern saying humanity neither has the
capacity nor the resources to investigate further.
The scientists then debate about their next move.
Gillian wants to send astronauts into the void,
but Charles strongly objects, saying they can’t
risk more people. Gillian acknowledges this but
says they can’t keep sending more probes as the
probes can’t give them enough information, and
they lose all communication with probes sent in.
She stresses the need to be in contact
with something that crosses into the void.
Alex agrees, saying the void could be the most
significant discovery in humanity’s history.
They eventually agree on initiating a full
mission into the void. Gillian says the mere
existence of a potentially habitable planet
on the other side is too important to dismiss.
Professor Jakob is highly pessimistic
about the mission and thinks it will fail.
He argues that the human body cannot endure the
stresses of traveling through a wormhole. He
recommends using more probes or robotics instead.
After a while, the void suddenly starts emitting
a strange dark smoke that clumps together into
thousands of spheres in the skies around the
world. Panic surges through the masses, and even
the Space Agency has no clue what to make of it.
Over the past few weeks, Gillian and her team
have found that the void had been emitting
invisible waves around the same time the dark
orbs formed. These waves have grown exponentially,
and simulations suggest that the void
would soon manifest a massive cosmic storm.
They believe that when the storm reaches Earth,
it will bathe the planet in a massive cosmic wave.
Near a forest, armed personnel set up a
base underneath the dark orb. While all
this is happening, the space agency cooperates
with the U.S. military to create a humanoid
powered by an astronaut's preserved brains.
Alice, a synthetic engineer, explains the
Human 2.0 project. A prosthetic with the
same organic makeup as a human will act as
a vessel for the astronauts' consciousness. In
the lab, Alice opens up a robotic human’s head
compartment that will house the brain. She
explains the material inside the suit has
millions of tiny neuro-fibers that will allow the
brain to move the body. She compares the empty
humanoid to a computer without a hard drive.
For the following days, Gillian and her team
interview candidates for the mission. They're
informed that the transfer to Human 2.0 is
permanent. Jessica is asked if she'd be
willing to participate, but she declines,
thinking her capabilities are inefficient and
saying she doesn't have the guts to do so.
Space Agency then gathers candidates
and has them undergo physical,
mental, and emotional exams to determine
if they're fit for the mission.
Only the best of the best will be chosen
to act as ambassadors for the human race.
Dr. Kuresh Patel explains the science behind the
transfer. The suit will allow humans to live much
longer. However, there are still limitations
as the mind can deteriorate over time. The
brain will be connected to an artificial spinal
cord that will allow mind and body connection.
One of the two candidates is Carl Roberts, who
shows exemplary cognitive abilities. Carl is
disabled, unable to walk, but he’s excited as
he'll soon have a perfectly working body again.
Alex likes Carl; he commends his passion and
evident desire to take the next step for humanity.
In the transplant facility, Carl’s face is
scanned. This will be used to make an exact
copy of his face that will be put on the
Human. 2.0. The suit itself is made from
military-grade graphene woven together to
create an impenetrable and flexible shell.
The eyes use nano-based optics that’ll allow
perfect sight for any lighting conditions.
A breathing mechanism is integrated
for heat regulation, also acting as
a familiar feature for the host. Lastly, a
tailored compound is injected into the suit,
which will provide the brain resources
it needs to function and maintain itself.
The spacecraft that will carry Carl has been
modified to be as light and fast as possible.
All the technology needed to keep a human
alive is removed from the ship as Human 2.0 is
self-sustaining. Sockets will then be connected
to the humanoids, monitoring their conditions
and feeding information to the brain.
Alex focuses on alien interaction. He
has manufactured a hard drive containing all
there is to know about Earth in hopes that
when they contact the alien lifeforms,
they can communicate and befriend them.
Back in the transplant facility, Dr. Kuresh,
and his team prepare Carl for the procedure.
The entire process will take about three
days, and he'll have to be injected
with a cocktail of anesthetics throughout.
In his final interview, Carl reminisces about
his past. He becomes emotional when he talks
about the most important person in his life,
his father. He dedicates his sacrifice
for him, and he drifts off to sleep.
The search to find meaning behind the
dark sphere’s existence continues.
The space agency prohibits any violence toward the
orbs, not until they find out how it's connected
to the void. There are hundreds of spheres
worldwide, with more appearing each day.
The findings show that the spheres are oddly in a
formation as if they're preparing for something.
Three days after the start of the transplant,
Dr. Kuresh breaks the unfortunate news of
Carl’s death. Carl’s brain couldn’t fuse with the
artificial spinal cord. His biological makeup was
not compatible with the organic material in the
suit. Everyone is in dismay with the outcome,
but the search for another candidate continues.
To prevent another loss, Alice configures Human
2.0. She plans to introduce organic
cells from the candidate and inject it
into the material inside the suit beforehand,
increasing the chance of a connection to form.
Meanwhile, Alex suggests sending robot soldiers
to the void as their time is running out.
However, Gillian doesn't want alien
lifeforms to view humans as a threat.
Scientists figure out that the employees
in the agency have undergone thorough
health-related tests for their safety from the
dangerous materials present in the facility.
With this, they find three candidates with a
precise biological makeup that’s compatible
with Human 2.0. One of the three is Jessica.
The next day, Jessica visits Gillian to talk
about her doubts. She agrees that her knowledge
will be helpful in the mission's success,
but the permanent transfer to a robot body
frightens her. Gillian assures that her family
will be taken care of if she doesn’t make it.
After careful consideration, Jessica finds the
courage to accept the responsibility. Alex tries
to change her mind, saying there are still two
other possible candidates. However, Jessica is
sure that she’s the most qualified out of them.
During his interview, Alex voiced his concern
about Jessica’s inability to lead such a
critical mission. Gillian counters his opinion,
saying that Jessica's thirst for knowledge and
ability to look further than what the eye can
see makes her more than competent to lead.
Days after the transfer procedure. Jessica awakens
as a new woman. Her brain accepts the vessel,
marking their first success. Gillian and
her colleagues observe Jessica; her face
exudes happiness as her friend is now reborn.
Jessica survived but is far from stable. She still
hasn't grown accustomed to her new environment,
finding difficulty talking and performing basic
motor skills. Alice reassures her that the team
is working on fixing her speech and that she'll be
fully operational soon enough. Jessica can finally
speak; she feels the same and, at the same time,
different. Her entire consciousness and
identity transferred successfully, and the
final obstacle is her physical rehabilitation.
The day of the launch arrives, and a robot
soldier accompanies Jessica on the spacecraft. The
rocket lifts off, leaving Earth’s atmosphere. The
link between mission control and Jessica has been
established, and they get access to what she sees.
The spacecraft enters the void. Jessica
describes her surroundings on the transmission.
Jessica describes the void as beautiful, but
as they get near, the pressure gets stronger.
Her readings suddenly go off the charts,
and the void starts distorting everything.
Jessica’s ship enters the void, and mission
control loses signal. Jessica is on her own,
and the only thing everyone can do now is to pray.
Gillian hopes that they’ll return within a
year. However, she also prepares for the
possibility of them not returning at all.
A week after the launch, Jessica’s craft
reappears, and radars detect it falling
into the Atlantic Ocean. No one predicted them
to return in such a short period. In the ship,
they found Jessica alone, with no signs
of the robot soldier's whereabouts.
Mixed opinions circulate within the space
agency. Gillian believes the mission is a
success while Alex deems it to be a failure.
He further states that this could be a warning
from the aliens. Meanwhile, Jessica is in an
unconscious state while being quarantined.
They have no idea when or if she'll wake up.
With the technology embedded in the suit, they
find out that several years' worth of memories are
recorded in Jessica's brain despite her being gone
for only five days. The team processes the data,
translating Jessica’s memory into video. However,
they have difficulty producing a clear feed.
The situation regarding the dark orbs escalates,
and the military grows restless. They start firing
at the sphere, but the spheres are unaffected,
seemingly absorbing everything
the military is throwing at it.
Jessica wakes up suddenly, but only for a moment
as the process of collecting memories delays her
recovery. Gillian desperately wants answers, so
she asks the unstable but awake Jessica about the
events in the void. She tells them that the robot
soldier disappeared from the craft in an instant.
He eerily floated away as if something had
abducted him. Then a flash of light exploded
from his arm. The ship then crashed into a planet.
She traveled the surface, touching the rocks,
the dirt, and the flowers. She encountered dark
smoke just like the one in Earth's skies. She
then got transported into a white room, and the
shadow took a different form and approached her.
Jessica saw Jim Marcell, and Jim kept saying
to her that everything was going to be okay.
Cryptic messages were transferred to her
mind, and that's all Jessica remembers.
Gillian and the space agency cannot believe
the information presented to them. If what
Jessica says is true, then the alien lifeforms
may be peaceful. Alex remains pessimistic and
doubts the credibility of Jessica's statements,
saying that with the alien's advanced technology,
they could've easily altered her memories.
Later, timelapse footage shows several celestial
bodies disintegrating. White smoke appears to
envelop them before the celestial bodies crumble.
The International Space Station informs the Space
Agency of incoming fragments crashing into Earth.
The dark orbs start moving,
enveloping the planet in a dark mist.
It functions as a protective dome that intercepts
the falling debris. At the agency, they celebrate
as they watch the smoke protect the planet.
Gillian and Alex realize how wrong they were.
The fear of the unknown blinded
them as the entity they thought
was a threat turned out to be their savior.
Jessica finally recovers to a stable state,
allowing for her memories to be displayed
clearly. The shadows told her that they
saved them because they saw the hard drive
about humanity that Jessica brought with her.
The shadows deemed humans worthy of being
saved despite their impurities. They then
left and said that they’d return at another time.
Jessica says that everything that’s been happening
is all part of a cycle created by the aliens
to purify the universe and keep it stable.
On another day, Jim Marcell is detected in the
Arizona desert. Military helicopters rescue and
bring him to the space agency. They tried to
ask him about his experience on the other side,
but he has no recollection of it.
The void and the smoke disappear,
but the agency starts noticing strange
occurrences above the Earth’s atmosphere.
Remnants of the void form a swirling cloud of gas
and dust that flourishes into a planet. This new
planet renders the laws of physics and science
obsolete as this was thought to be impossible.
The planet is deemed habitable. Not only that,
Alex describes it as being custom-built for
humans. They refer to the planet as Earth-Two.
After Earth's struggle to develop a plan,
they finally send numerous humanoids to colonize
the new planet. The void has given humanity a
second chance in the form of a new planet.
Everyone hopes that this can act as a lesson
for humanity to do better and ultimately
prove that their existence is worth saving.
12 months after the void’s disappearance,
Gillian narrates that she feels as if the
void hasn’t left and that the aliens must still
be observing them. Space Agency has sent out
the first manned expedition to Earth-Two,
hoping that the first generation would help
prepare the planet for the next generation of
humans that would call Earth-Two their home.